General remarks
---------------

The administration is works mostly through CVS.

Set CVS_RSH to "ssh".  Moreover, add a clause like the following to
.ssh/config:

Host srfi.schemers.org
BatchMode=yes
Port=9876

Then do this to check out the web tree:

cvs -d :ext:srfi-aut@srfi.schemers.org:/afs/informatik.uni-tuebingen.de/home/srfi/srfi-cvs checkout srfi

Replace the final "srfi" by the name of the module for checking out
the other modules.

There are three important modules:

CVSROOT (of course)
srfi      contains the web hierarchy
software  contains associated software

Check out at least software and srfi.

Generally, a SRFI <n> resides as

srfi-<n>/srfi-<n>.html in the srfi module.

These files are magic.

Checking in a new SRFI draft
----------------------------

Now what happens is that, if you check in such a file for the very
first time, it will automatically create the mailing list and send a
welcome message to srfi-announce.

IMPORTANT NOTE: The commit magic checks that SRFI actually adheres to
the HTML skeleton to extract author, title and so forth.  If it can't
do that, the commit will fail.  (But it will tell you about it.)

Therefore, before you add a new draft SRFI, you should check the
header section for adherence to the template.  Also, you must add a
status section (just copy & adjust one from one of the other SRFIs).
Also, add your name in the "Editor" line at the bottom of the SRFI.

For doing the commit, I suggest you use the script "register-srfi"
from the software module, which performs the same checks on your side
of CVS.  Run

register-srfi srfi-<n>.html

in the freshly created and CVS-added srfi-<n> subdirectory of the srfi
module.

This will create a skeleton index.html file, CVS-add both index.html
and srfi-<n>.html, and commit them, which in turn does everything
else.

You can commit changes to both files afterwards to your hearts'
desire.  Note that index.html points to the mailing list archives
which are updated automatically.

If you've committed a SRFI, please update draft-srfis.html,
final-srfis.html, and withdrawn-srfis.html in the srfi module and
commit the changes.  (Hint: automation of index generation is on the
ToDo lists.)

Note that you guys are moderators of srfi-announce.  Therefore, you
will get every mail for your approval.  If you want to approve a mail
sent to srfi-announce, resend it with a new header:

Approved: dvanhorn@cs.uvm.edu

(or the equivalent magic for the rest of us)

THIS INCLUDES THE AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED ANNOUNCEMENTS.

When re-sending the approved announcement of a draft SRFI, make sure
you're using a MUA capable of posting news (or some other means for
posting to Usenet).

Finalizing a SRFI
-----------------

- Use register-srfi on finalized SRFIs: Change the status to ``final''
  and call register-srfi instead of CVS-committing regularly.  This
  will also auto-generate an appropriate index.html file.

- The server-side commit script will auto-generate the finalization
  announcement and send it to srfi-announce.  You still need to
  re-send with an Approved: header.

- Move the <LI> entry from draft-srfis.html to final-srfi.html.

